Our base case is that tariffs will be uh
ruled uh illegal that they will be
knocked down. Wow.
>> So that's that's our base case. [music]
>> Hey everyone, I'm Telus Deeimos
>> and I'm Gjen Banerjee
>> and I'm Miriam Gotfrieded. On today's
show, we have a big conversation about
Washington.
>> But before we get to that, we've got a
lot to talk about with what's going on
in the markets this upcoming week.
Miriam, tell us why you're focused on
Netflix's upcoming earnings report this
coming week.
>> Well, as everyone probably knows,
Netflix is engaged in a deal to buy
Warner Discovery, and I think we should
expect to hear some kind of update on
how that's going. Um, of course,
Paramount also wants to buy Warner, and
there's been kind of a back and forth
bidding war between the two parties. I
think Netflix is generally seen as the
one to beat because Warner has signed a
deal with them. They want to move
forward with them and because there's a
huge breakup fee involved in that
Netflix deal.
>> Meaning that if Netflix doesn't end up
buying it, they're going to have to pay
out to Warner Brothers.
>> Yes. They're going to h have to pay out
$5.8 billion. That's big, right? That's
a pretty big
Okay. All right. and and Netflix stock
has kind of underperformed over the past
year, lagging behind the S&P 500 by
around six, seven, eight percentage
points, which is a pretty big margin for
for a stock like Netflix.
>> Is that a sign that the market doesn't
want Netflix to buy this? That there's
some doubts about the true kind of
synergies of like Netflix owning
Paramount Studios and all that.
>> I think it could be a sign of two
things. One is that yes, the market
would rather have Netflix continue as
the streaming leader, keep doing its
core business and growing subscribers
and not worry about buying another
company and not spend a lot of money on
buying another company. And then I think
the other concern could be that this
does not get approval from antitrust
regulators. I mean, Trump himself has
said he's going to get involved in the
anti antitrust review for this deal. And
I think there's a lot of uncertainty
over whether it gets approved.
>> And what might Netflix say when it
reports its earnings? Do you think that
they would announce like an improved bid
or something like that or or or would
they just give other color about how
they're sticking with this and and what
do you expect?
>> Well, the journals reported that Netflix
is preparing an allcash offer. So
removing the stock component from its
bid, which would potentially make it a
more attractive bid for shareholders.
There's been some volatility in in these
tech stocks to start the year, but I
really think all the action has been in
the metals market. I mean, this has been
a crazy rally in gold and silver. I
think silver blew past like a 45 year
high to to end 2025 and it just keeps
running up to kick off this year.
>> How much of that do you think is related
to what's been going on with the Federal
Reserve? We had the news that the uh uh
DC prosecutor was investigating Jerome
Powell related to the Fed's new
headquarters building. How much of that
gold trade is the return of this
debasement of the dollar, sell America,
kind of get out of of US, you know,
dollar denominated assets including
treasuries and get into precious metals.
At so many moments over the past year,
we've heard about this debasement trade,
this sell America trade, and yes, we've
seen this huge rally in gold, silver,
unlike anything we've seen in recent
years, but then US stocks still soared,
right? US assets still did well. So, I'm
just I'm a little bit skeptical of of
the debasement trade and the sell
America trade, but it seems like during
any moments of turmoil, people just
flocked to gold, they flocked to silver.
that happened during the tariff turmoil
last year. It's happening now during
this Federal Reserve drama that's
playing out and then it becomes a trade
that's kind of larger than itself.
>> I think part of it is that the market
doesn't know how to react to big news
events anymore. like big, you know,
there's so much coming out of Washington
as we're going to be talking about
later. And I think the market basically
is trying to think like is this actually
a time to sell my stocks because somehow
stocks have kept charging higher despite
all of the uncertainty and all of the
things that have been thrown at the
market over you know the past year plus.
So I think people maybe are just saying
well just in case I'm also going to buy
these metals which I know will kind of
be there for me in the end. I think that
is such a good point because last Sunday
night when this Federal Reserve news
broke and Jerome Powell put out this
pretty remarkable video, right, saying
that the subpoena was a result of
President Trump trying to control
interest rates,
>> which was new. He hadn't explicitly said
anything.
>> He had said that. So, I'm texting
traders and I was like really surprised
to see a pretty muted reaction in the
stock futures market. I was like, are
there any big options trades going up?
What's going on? And it was like kind of
a nothing like in the stock market in
the derivatives market there was not a
lot of action. All of the action was in
gold and silver.
>> Look, it's not news that that Donald
Trump isn't happy with Jerome Powell,
right? So I don't think that that
updated the market with anything new.
And number two, you know, an
investigation is not the same thing as a
prosecution. We've seen many people
investigated without, you know, you've
got to get a grand jury together, right?
like to to actually do something remove
them uh is many steps removed from that.
And so it's part of I think this process
of people in the markets really trying
to sift out signal and noise from
Washington and see how that translates
because meanwhile you did see some very
dramatic reactions in pockets of the
stock market to specific things. And
I'll point to what what I would tie to
this broader affordability
agenda narrative and we're going to talk
about that in our in our interview
today. uh on the show, but you know,
people in Washington like the president
trying to say, "Hey, how can we appeal
how how can we get people to feel better
about what's going on in the economy?"
So, you have this, he threw out this
idea of capping credit card interest
rates earlier this month, right at 10%.
And you saw credit card companies, big
banks that issue credit cards, their
stocks were sharply affected by that.
And even through this past week, the
banks have reported great results, but
their stocks really didn't do so well.
And before that, Trump said that he was
going to ban investors from buying
single family homes and you saw a big
decline in those stocks.
>> Yeah. So there's like a novelty factor
here, right? Those are new. You know,
Donald Trump's fight with the Fed, not
new. Donald Trump's fight with credit
card issuers, with single family home,
uh, companies, um, buyers. That is new.
And so the market's kind of focused on
that. Now, will we ultimately see the
same return of the, you know, Trump
always chickens out trade where like
people will ultimately the taco
[laughter] trade. Credit to our friends
at the Financial Times for coming up
with that one. But like, you know, will
we ultimately see people say, you know
what, okay, he's made his noise about
this, but really, are they really going
to cap credit card interest rates? I
mean, that's a huge change. So, maybe
maybe eventually we'll see that kind of
wither. But I also think we're not done
with that yet. Um, this upcoming week, I
think one important earnings report to
watch is Travelers. They're the first
big insurance company to look at. And
insurance is another big factor in
affordability and inflation. You already
had here in New York State another, you
know, thanks to Zora Mamani, you know,
another sort of locust of the kind of
affordability discussion. And so you had
the governor of New York talking about,
you know, kind of the outsized profits
of auto and home insurers and maybe
doing something about that. So, I wonder
if that might be something President
Trump might bring back because remember
before the election he was talking
about, oh, I'm going to bring your car
insurance rates down.
>> Yeah. I mean, being a trader this year
is basically like being a policy
analyst. You really have to be
constantly evaluating each thing that's
coming out of Washington. So, we decided
to call a real policy analyst, Monica.
She is the head of US policy at Morgan
Stanley Wealth Management. And that's
coming up. But first, we wanted to hear
from Gungeon, who has some news to share
with everyone.
>> Yes, this is some bittersweet news, but
today is my last day co-hosting Take on
the Week officially. I hope you guys
will still let me crash from time
[laughter] to time because I would love
to pop in.
>> This table fits three people.
>> It does. I think this this fits three
people quite well, and I like sitting
down with both of you. So, I I hope that
we can [clears throat and laughter]
>> I hope that we can sit down uh for so
many more interviews. For now, I will be
hosting a new show here at the Wall
Street Journal called the WSJ Money
Interview, where we will be sitting down
with investors, entrepreneurs, athletes,
you name it, to hear all about how they
made it. The first one um is out on
WSJ.com now, and you can go to
wsj.com/moneyin
to watch it. But
>> I highly recommend you watch it. It is
awesome.
>> Thank you. Thank you. But I am I am
really excited to continue the
conversation here as well. and thank you
to Telus to being such an awesome
co-host the past few months.
>> Well, I it was a pleasure of course and
I'm so glad you're staying part of the
WSJ audio family and I know this will
not be the last time that listeners of
this particular show hear your voice and
your perspective. Um and in some related
news, I am not going to be thankfully
everybody, you are not going to have to
listen to just me talking to myself from
now on as [laughter] much as I enjoy
that. Uh but I've got a new co-host
joining me and and I don't know Miriam,
do you have any news that you'd like to
share? Well, Telus, I am excited to be
taking Gungeon's place as the co-host of
Take on the Week and I am really um you
know, I've been enjoying being a guest
host a number of times over the past
year and I'm really excited to be taking
this on full-time um and maybe Gungeon
can be the guest host on occasion.
>> Yes, I would love to be and you're going
to crush it.
>> Thank you so much. We need to take a
quick break and when we come back we're
going to have that conversation with
Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management. [music]
Welcome back. We're here with Monica
Aguero. Monica, welcome to the show.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Well, January has certainly brought a
century's worth of stuff to talk about
with regards to Washington and the
market.
>> Yeah. And top of mind is the Department
of Justice's investigation into Federal
Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and what
does that mean now about Fed
independence? Um there's sort of renewed
market concerns about that and Telus and
I were wondering, you know, how does
that affect the uh sell America trade
that was sort of like percolating last
year around tariffs? Is that going to be
revived because of this um you know
concern over the Fed? I think we have to
wait and see what happens in June,
right? June, July is going to be sort of
that pivotal moment. What's been
interesting is with, you know, uh,
Tillis setting, you know, stepping up
and pushing back against Trump,
>> North Carolina Senator Tom. Yes. Tom
Tillis, um, stepping up and actually,
you know, saying, look, we're not going
to just go forward with whoever you put
forth as a nominee and that we're going
to do our due diligence and do our job,
right? that I think could slow down the
process and actually give folks more
insight into where we could actually
land. So I don't think it's necessarily
a sell America moment. I think we have
to wait and see. Um what will be
interesting about uh the Fed, I think
more than even who becomes chair is, you
know, what do they do with the Fed
structurally? Do they do a reorg? That's
something that we're thinking about
essentially. Do they take the Fed chair,
right, who's more of the executive,
right, the operations guy, and separate
that from the FOMC seat, where they set
monetary policy and rates and rebucket
and redistribute different roles to
prevent mission creeps.
>> How does this being a midterm year
change the way that you're thinking
about policy and politics, President
Trump's ability to sort of push through
an agenda? um you know how Democrats
will necessarily respond. What what's
different about a midterms year from a
market's point of view?
>> So midterm years if we're looking
historically actually markets don't
perform the best. Doesn't mean they
don't outperform. I'm not predicting any
sort of underperformance. It's just
they're not as strong as other years,
right? It's the first year of an
administration tends to be when
everything goes gang busters. Second
year, you're trying to get through some
of those priorities that you didn't get
through in year one. This becomes even
more important this time around because
when you're thinking about this current
environment, you have not only the
expectation that the House is going to
swing to the Democrats, but you layer on
the falling approval rating of the
president, which is not the lowest
approval rating he's ever had. It just
so happens it's during a midterm
election year, and that could be a down
ballot referendum, right, on on their
performance. Well, another big stimulus
effect already kind of coming through is
from the um the the budget bill, the one
big beautiful uh bill. There are tax
cuts that were part of that. Some of
them were extensions of existing things.
Some of them are new like the no tax on
tips and things like that. What's your
expectation for how much, you know, tax
refunds will play a role in the health
of the consumer this year?
>> So, this is similar dynamic, right?
we're thinking about, you know, that
that extra money coming in. Um, we're
expecting, you know, tax refunds to be
up about 44% year-over-year. So, that's
pretty substantial. One of the things
that's important about the one big
beautiful bell act, right, and the OBVA
as as we call it, is that the real
broader economic benefit is not from the
individual tax cuts, right? It's from
that corporate tax side of the equation
where we get you know 100% bonus
depreciation, immediate R&D expensing um
as well as uh you know you can fully
write off a new factory build before
2028 amongst other right tax credits um
for small uh I would say growth sector
businesses right um and so for us that's
really where what we're watching broadly
when we're thinking about from the macro
sense um because it's lowering the uh
average effective corporate income tax
rate from 21% to you know in some cases
could be low as 15% which is the lowest
in US history and puts us on par with
you know some of the lowest rates in the
world. Well, I do want to say before we
move on on the from the one big
beautiful bill act, your forecast is
also that the economic impacts, there's
the kind of short-term fiscal stimulus
of tax benefits for people, but over
time, over the next few years, you
actually expect it to have a negative
impact on GDP. Does that come from
budget decisions about whether or not
to, you know, continue to provide
incentives for those investments and
things like that? Why does that bill
ultimately in the future kind of drag on
the economy potentially?
>> So, it doesn't have to do with
necessarily the the tax framework. So,
you get the biggest impact in 2026
because that's when everyone takes the
first, you know, dip into the into tax
money, right? And they get that refund.
So, it's the biggest impact for
individuals and for corporates. But over
time, you start to see a drag because of
all of the budget cuts that have been
made. And so, that's really the dragging
factor. It's not that you know when
you're looking at and modeling these out
you're assuming a status quo in the out
years right and that but when you're
thinking about the cuts the cuts come at
different levels and at different times
and over time with reductions you know
to Medicaid for example as well as other
programs SNAP etc it does create
pressure um and that could in a steady
state right if things stay static um
create a drag in the in five years out
>> and speaking of those cuts
We have another potential showdown in
Washington about those cuts. Obviously,
we ended the government shutdown late
last year partly by kicking the can to
January, right? There's a new deadline
for Republicans and Democrats to agree
on uh you know, healthcare market
subsidies and things like that. Do you
think that we could get another
government shutdown early this year?
>> I think there isn't much of a political
appetite for it. I think that you have
Democrats and Republicans looking to
move forward and move to a positive, you
know, election year. When I say
positive, positive campaigning tends to
do better than negative messaging and
campaigning for the for the sitting um
candidate. I want to switch switch gears
a little bit and talk about tariffs,
which was of course the big conversation
of all of last year. Um, we have a
coming Supreme Court decision um on
Trump's ability to use the tariffs in
the way that he did and enact them in
the way that he did. It seems like the
outcome of that could have an enormous
effect on the markets. Um, what do you
think?
>> So, our base case is that tariffs will
be uh ruled uh illegal that they will be
knocked down. Wow.
>> So, that's that's our base case. We
think that the tariffs from the for
thinking about AIPA specifically that
they will not be valid
>> and AIPA just was the law under which
Trump you know decided he could enact
these
>> right announced the 10% plus the country
specific right tariffs on liberation day
right so that's the emergencies powers
act that's the short version right the
emergency powers act that was used
>> now what's important about this is that
there have since been deals and
frameworks put into play. We're thinking
about Europe. There's conversations
happening with China. We don't have that
finalized yet. Um we have a negotiation
upcoming with USMCA. And so the the
biggest players generally have cover
here or at least there's some sort of
progress. The other sort of option here
is that there's the the the gray
version, right? sort of the gray area
where you get all of pretty much
everything thrown out except we can make
the argument that there is an economic
cold war between the US and China so we
keep the China tariffs right so it
doesn't have to be all or nothing that's
the other thing I just want to highlight
um we do think it's majority thrown out
most of it thrown out um if not all but
you could get that middle ground or some
sort of incisive uh response as well
which would further diminish any sort of
market response. Now, on the
reimbursement checks,
we don't think that's going to happen.
>> You're talking about the the the idea of
a $2,000 check paid for by tariffs that
Trump would send out to
>> to consumers, right? So, we we don't
think that that is likely, and there's a
couple reasons for that. So, first of
all, you have fiscal hawks on both sides
of the aisle, right? It's not it is not
just Republicans, it's not just
Democrats. There is a large contingent,
a bipartisan contingent that does not
want to see the debt and deficit
continue to get pushed up drastically.
Okay.
>> You're looking at a budget where we were
just talking about the budget bills
going through that are not inclusive of
the NDAA which is the National Defense
Authorization Act considered separately
and the request from the president there
was 1.5 trillion.
>> Yeah. Let's talk about that in a second
because that's a big number. Yeah.
>> Okay. So that is a big number, right?
and could add again to the deficit. So
if you're having these large increases
to the just general budget plus the
consumer is receiving the benefit of all
these you know caps affordability
regulatory measures as well as a robust
uh tax season.
>> Yeah. [clears throat]
>> Can you make the argument for that
additional those additional checks?
There is a world in which it happens but
we think that it is unlikely. We also
have had so much uh in the way of uh
foreign policy and geopolitical turmoil
at the start of the year. We had, you
know, the US um mission into Venezuela.
We've got um what's going on in Iran and
Trump's threats to get involved there.
We've got Greenland threats of um you
know, US involvement in Greenland. How
do markets react to that or and you
know, what could be the big you know
factors affecting that? We've seen that
markets are not responding to much,
right? That's the that's something that,
you know, we're we're talking about, you
know, a lot is what is, right? What is
that moment? And I'm not going to opine
on all the potential, you know, black
swan, you know, tipping points. Um,
because we've seen many and they still
haven't responded, right? So, this is
where, you know, 10, 15 years ago, they
would have been huge moments, right?
markets have continued to sort of look
through. Um that doesn't mean that we're
onward and upward, right, with every
crisis. Um but what's important when
we're thinking about risk and
opportunities around the geopolitical
space, you have to look at, you know,
what is the baseline um request or goal
>> going back to what you said before that
that enormous ask for the defense
budget, right? that 1.5 trillion which
would be I think a half a billion dollar
increase from what it was in the past
but as an investor if you're looking at
you know we're spending an additional
half a trillion dollars on defense each
of these different ventures it's hard to
gauge the the level of success right how
much oil will actually be coming out of
Venezuela who can you know is there
investment available for that what might
be the upshot of Iran you mentioned what
kind of black swan you know sort of
impact on oil markets etc global
conflict
as an investor, how do you approach
this?
>> So, I have been for a very long time.
I'm I am long defense. Um, this is
something that is a bipartisan issue.
That's the other thing I just really
want to underscore. This is every person
in Congress for the longest the as long
as I've been tracking this, it is
unanimous that the NDAA gets passed.
Unanimous. Doesn't matter where you
land. That's that's the defense budget,
>> right? The defense budget. So, this is
this is part of sort of our identity,
right? And sort of culture is one that
supports, you know, defense and defense
contracting. So, I'm long defense. One
of the things that's important about
this is that with sort of this change,
right, in technology, with the
introduction of a golden dome, with
drone technology, etc.,
the primes are likely to do well, but
it's really right the smaller players.
>> Primes meaning like the large
>> the large the large traditional defense
tractor uh contractors, but really, you
know, you want to be looking at, you
know, drone technology, anti-bballistic
weapon technology, um, and other sort of
missile defense systems.
>> All right. Well, when we come back, one
more question for Monica of Morgan
Stanley Wealth Management. [music]
So, as we mentioned, Monica, it's a
midterm election year and right now the
markets are betting. If you look at poly
market, for example, 79% chance of the
Democrats taking control of the house
and therefore having split government
again. I think for a long time the
conventional wisdom is that split
government, gridlock is good for
markets.
What do you think markets reaction will
be to a change of control in the House?
>> I think it'll be positive. I think
gridlock is the best scenario. And I'm
not saying this just from a markets
lens, right? We're thinking during
periods where you've have a Republican
president and a gridlock Congress,
markets outperform 23% on average. Why?
Why? So that's that's the that's the
good part that I'm talking about is that
you get a stall in extreme policym,
which extreme policym creates a lot of
swings and volatility in markets. So
less of the uncertainty.
>> Less of the uncertainty. But then you
get opportunities for bipartisan
legislation that create tailwinds that
get signed into law by the president. If
you have a unified Congress versus
opposition party president, they're
going to just s knock down everything
you send their way. So you you get
positive. It's the second best
situation.
>> Love democracy.
>> But they do love democracy. They love
they love a good bipartisan chips act.
Let's just put it that way.
>> All right. Well, Monica, thanks so much.
We had a wide-ranging conversation
today, but obviously so much going on in
Washington that affects markets and
investors. Uh we we had a hard time
narrowing down the questions to ask you.
Uh so really appreciate your time here.
Thanks.
>> Thanks for having me.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Get lower some platform shoes for the
[laughter]
>> I don't wear flats.
>> What about like a little just like a
little box or something? You know,
>> you do not know my real height. Nobody
in this office does.
[music]